---
fip: 0
title: FIP Purpose and Guidelines
status: Active
author: Jonathan Ward <jonathan.ward@fetch.ai>, David Galindo <david.galindo@fetch.ai>, David Minarsch <david.minarsch@fetch.ai>, and others
        https://github.com/fetchai/FIPs/blob/master/FIPs/fip-0.md
discussions-to: https://discord.com/invite/UDzpBFa (governance channel)
created: 2019-12-01
updated: 2020-12-14
---

## What is a FIP?

FIP stands for Fetch.ai Improvement Proposal. A FIP is a design document providing information to the Fetch.ai community, or describing a new feature for Fetch.ai or its processes or environment. The author should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature in terms of the projects goals. The FIP author(s) are responsible for progression of the FIP through the Fetch.ai approval process. 

## FIP Rationale

We intend FIPs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing new features, for collecting community technical input on an issue, and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into Fetch.ai. Because the FIPs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history is the historical record of the feature proposal.

For Fetch.ai implementers, FIPs are a convenient way to track the progress of their implementation. Ideally each implementation maintainer would list the FIPs that they have implemented. This will give end users a convenient way to know the current status of a given implementation or library.

## What belongs in a successful FIP?

Each FIP should have the following parts:

- Preamble - RFC 822 style headers containing metadata about the FIP, including the FIP number, a short descriptive title (limited to a maximum of 44 characters), and the author details.

- Abstract - A short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.

- Motivation (*optional) - The motivation is critical for FIPs that want to change the Fetch.ai protocol. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the FIP solves. FIP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.

- Specification - The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations for any of the current Fetch.ai platforms.

- Rationale - The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.

- Backwards Compatibility - All FIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The FIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. FIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

- Test Cases - Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for FIPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other FIPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.

- Implementations - The implementations must be completed before any FIP is given status “Final”, but it need not be completed before the FIP is merged as draft. While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of “rough consensus and running code” is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.

- Copyright Waiver - All FIPs must be in the public domain. See the bottom of this FIP for an example copyright waiver.

## FIP Formats and Templates

FIPs should be written in markdown format.
Image files should be included in a subdirectory of the `assets` folder for that FIP as follows: `assets/fip-N` (where **N** is to be replaced with the FIP number). When linking to an image in the FIP, use relative links such as `../assets/fip-0/image.png`.

## History

This document builds upon a chain of improvement proposals for open-source software. The latest iteration from which this document is derived is [Aragon's AGP-1] written by John Light, which is itself derived from  [Ethereum's EIP-1] written by Martin Becze, Hudson Jameson and others. Ethereum's EIP was in turn developed from [Bitcoin's BIP-0001] written by Amir Taaki, which was derived from [Python's PEP-0001]. In many places text was simply copied and modified. Although the PEP-0001 text was written by Barry Warsaw, Jeremy Hylton, and David Goodger, they are not responsible for its use in the Fetch.ai Improvement Process, and should not be bothered with governance or technical questions specific to Fetch.ai or the FIP. Please direct all comments to the FIP editors.

December 1, 2020: FIP 0 has been improved and will be placed as a PR.

See [the revision history for further details](https://github.com/fetchai/improvement-proposals/commits/main/FIPs/fip-000.md), which is also available by clicking on the History button in the top right of the FIP.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

